[MUSIC]
Building upon the example
of the one-way data table,
let's add an additional variable.
The number of passengers per flight.
We were working to understand
profitability, and for
the one-way data table,
we assumed we knew the demand.
However, just like the fuel costs,
this variable we'd expect to vary.
The operations team has analyzed
historical demand and determined that
the minimum demand is 150 passengers, and
the maximum demand is 200 passengers.
Now we'll analyze how profit changes
when we have two variable inputs,
demand, passengers, and
costs, cost per mile.
For total revenue, we multiply the number
of passengers by revenue per passenger,
which is $150.
The two-way data table requires
a slightly different set up.
So now the objective profit per flight
must be placed directly above
the column input variable, fuel cost.
Again, we've provided the structure
of the data table, this time in cells
F142 through L153.
Similar to our one-way data table,
we've provided the required input and
the objective formula in
the input parameters table.
The inputs we are going to vary
are passengers in cell C143,
and cost per mile in cell C146.
The objective formula,
profit per flight, is in cell C149.
We've supplied a range of values for
cost per mile in cells F143 through F153.
Now, since we have a two-way data table,
we have a second range of values,
passengers, in cells G142 through L142.
Let's begin building our data table.
First we need to link
our objective formula.
This setup is slightly different than
the one-way data table from before.
In the other one-way data table
we placed the link directly above
the range of outcomes.
For a two-way data table, we place
the link above the column inputs and
adjacent to the row input cell F142.
Select cell F142 and
type the equals sign and
link to the output cell C149 and
hit Enter.
Next using your mouse highlight
cells F142 through L153.
Navigate to the Data tab in the ribbon and
select Data Table from
the What If Analysis drop down.
Our column variable
input is cost per mile.
So using the reference box,
select cell and hit Enter.
Using the reference box for row input
cell, select C143 and hit Enter, and
then click OK.
Each value returned in the data table
corresponds to the profit per flight
given the two variables we
are letting vary, cost and revenue.
For example, the value of cell
I148 is profit per flight
with 170 passengers, and
a cost of $40 per mile.
This provides a succinct method to display
a formula with multiple values for
two different inputs.
We've now demonstrated how
to use a two-way data table
to determine the range of outcomes.
Under two variables,
cost per mile and passengers.
Now it's your turn to practice.
Please use the student workbook.
[SOUND]